README.md, before:

# Pomo

[![style: very good analysis][very_good_analysis_badge]][very_good_analysis_link]

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/recoskyler' target='_blank'><img height='35' style='border:0px;height:46px;' src='https://az743702.vo.msecnd.net/cdn/kofi3.png?v=0' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com'></a>

A simple, cross-platform Pomodoro timer app with WebHook support.

![Dark Mode Screenshot](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/blob/main/assets/images/screenshot_dark.png?raw=true)

![Light Mode Screenshot](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/blob/main/assets/images/screenshot_light.png?raw=true)

![Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/blob/main/assets/images/settings.png?raw=true)

---

## 🌟 Features

- ⏱ Adjustable work, short break, and long break durations
- 👏 Adjustable lap count
- 🌐 Webhook integration
- 🌛 Light/Dark theme
- 🌈 Themes in a variety of colors
- ⏰ Customizable timer font
- 📢 Customizable sounds

## ⌨ Keyboard Shortcuts

- <kbd>Space</kbd> or <kbd>Enter</kbd> to start/pause the timer
- <kbd>s</kbd> to skip the lap
- <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>BackSpace</kbd> to reset the timer

## 🌐 Using WebHooks

You can configure WebHooks from the **Settings** page.

If you would like to trigger multiple WebHook URLs from a single event, you can enter multiple URLs separated by a comma. e.g.:

`https://example.com/api/v1/webhooks/start,https://example2.com/api/v1/webhooks/toggle`

The main reason I created this application was to use these WebHooks to control my ambient light using HomeAssistant.

## Installing

You can either download and install one of the already-built [releases](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/releases), or [build it yourself](#building).

## Development

### Tech Stack

- Flutter 3.19.6
- Dart 3.3.4

This project contains 3 flavors:

- development
- staging
- production

To run the desired flavor either use the launch configuration in VSCode/Android Studio or use the following commands:

```sh
# Development
$ flutter run --flavor development --target lib/main_development.dart

# Staging
$ flutter run --flavor staging --target lib/main_staging.dart

# Production
$ flutter run --flavor production --target lib/main_production.dart
```

_\*Pomo works on iOS, Android, Web, Linux, MacOS, and Windows._

---

## Working with Translations 🌐

This project relies on [flutter_localizations][flutter_localizations_link] and follows the [official internationalization guide for Flutter][internationalization_link].

### Adding Strings

1. To add a new localizable string, open the `app_en.arb` file at `lib/l10n/arb/app_en.arb`.

```arb
{
    "@@locale": "en",
    "counterAppBarTitle": "Counter",
    "@counterAppBarTitle": {
        "description": "Text shown in the AppBar of the Counter Page"
    }
}
```

2. Then add a new key/value and description

```arb
{
    "@@locale": "en",
    "counterAppBarTitle": "Counter",
    "@counterAppBarTitle": {
        "description": "Text shown in the AppBar of the Counter Page"
    },
    "helloWorld": "Hello World",
    "@helloWorld": {
        "description": "Hello World Text"
    }
}
```

3. Use the new string

```dart
import 'package:pomo/l10n/l10n.dart';

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  final l10n = context.l10n;
  return Text(l10n.helloWorld);
}
```

### Adding Supported Locales

Update the `CFBundleLocalizations` array in the `Info.plist` at `ios/Runner/Info.plist` to include the new locale.

```xml
    ...

    <key>CFBundleLocalizations</key>
	<array>
		<string>en</string>
	</array>

    ...
```

### Adding Translations

1. For each supported locale, add a new ARB file in `lib/l10n/arb`.

```
├── l10n
│   ├── arb
│   │   ├── app_en.arb
│   │   └── app_es.arb
```

2. Add the translated strings to each `.arb` file:

`app_en.arb`

```arb
{
    "@@locale": "en",
    "timer": "Timer"
    ...
}
```

### Generating Translations

To use the latest translations changes, you will need to generate them:

1. Generate localizations for the current project:

```sh
flutter gen-l10n --arb-dir="lib/l10n/arb"
```

Alternatively, run `flutter run` and code generation will take place automatically.

## Building

### Building for the web

```bash
$ flutter build web --release -o docs
```

### Building .APK

Follow the steps [here](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/android). Make sure to create a keystore.

```bash
$ flutter build apk
```

### Building .DEB & .RPM (on Ubuntu 22.04)

More info [here](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/linux) and [here](https://medium.com/@fluttergems/packaging-and-distributing-flutter-desktop-apps-the-missing-guide-part-3-linux-24ef8d30a5b4).

#### Building .DEB

```bash
$ flutter_distributor release --name=dev --jobs=release-dev-linux-deb
```

#### Building .RPM

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install rpm patchelf

$ flutter_distributor release --name=dev --jobs=release-dev-linux-rpm
```

### Building .EXE

[*good luck*](https://medium.com/@fluttergems/packaging-and-distributing-flutter-desktop-apps-the-missing-guide-part-2-windows-0b468d5e9e70)

[help](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/windows)

## About

By [recoskyler](https://github.com/recoskyler) - 2024

- Used **Major Mono Display** font by *Emre Parlak*.

[coverage_badge]: coverage_badge.svg
[flutter_localizations_link]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/flutter_localizations/flutter_localizations-library.html
[internationalization_link]: https://flutter.dev/docs/development/accessibility-and-localization/internationalization
[license_badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[license_link]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[very_good_analysis_badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/style-very_good_analysis-B22C89.svg
[very_good_analysis_link]: https://pub.dev/packages/very_good_analysis
[very_good_cli_link]: https://github.com/VeryGoodOpenSource/very_good_cli

Commit message:

docs: add launcher icon and splash screen generation instructions

README.md, after:

# Pomo

[![style: very good analysis][very_good_analysis_badge]][very_good_analysis_link]

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/recoskyler' target='_blank'><img height='35' style='border:0px;height:46px;' src='https://az743702.vo.msecnd.net/cdn/kofi3.png?v=0' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com'></a>

A simple, cross-platform Pomodoro timer app with WebHook support.

![Dark Mode Screenshot](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/blob/main/assets/images/screenshot_dark.png?raw=true)

![Light Mode Screenshot](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/blob/main/assets/images/screenshot_light.png?raw=true)

![Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/blob/main/assets/images/settings.png?raw=true)

---

## 🌟 Features

- ⏱ Adjustable work, short break, and long break durations
- 👏 Adjustable lap count
- 🌐 Webhook integration
- 🌛 Light/Dark theme
- 🌈 Themes in a variety of colors
- ⏰ Customizable timer font
- 📢 Customizable sounds

## ⌨ Keyboard Shortcuts

- <kbd>Space</kbd> or <kbd>Enter</kbd> to start/pause the timer
- <kbd>s</kbd> to skip the lap
- <kbd>r</kbd> or <kbd>BackSpace</kbd> to reset the timer

## 🌐 Using WebHooks

You can configure WebHooks from the **Settings** page.

If you would like to trigger multiple WebHook URLs from a single event, you can enter multiple URLs separated by a comma. e.g.:

`https://example.com/api/v1/webhooks/start,https://example2.com/api/v1/webhooks/toggle`

The main reason I created this application was to use these WebHooks to control my ambient light using HomeAssistant.

## Installing

You can either download and install one of the already-built [releases](https://github.com/recoskyler/pomo/releases), or [build it yourself](#building).

## Development

### Tech Stack

- Flutter 3.19.6
- Dart 3.3.4

This project contains 3 flavors:

- development
- staging
- production

To run the desired flavor either use the launch configuration in VSCode/Android Studio or use the following commands:

```sh
# Development
$ flutter run --flavor development --target lib/main_development.dart

# Staging
$ flutter run --flavor staging --target lib/main_staging.dart

# Production
$ flutter run --flavor production --target lib/main_production.dart
```

_\*Pomo works on iOS, Android, Web, Linux, MacOS, and Windows._

---

## Working with Translations 🌐

This project relies on [flutter_localizations][flutter_localizations_link] and follows the [official internationalization guide for Flutter][internationalization_link].

### Adding Strings

1. To add a new localizable string, open the `app_en.arb` file at `lib/l10n/arb/app_en.arb`.

```arb
{
    "@@locale": "en",
    "counterAppBarTitle": "Counter",
    "@counterAppBarTitle": {
        "description": "Text shown in the AppBar of the Counter Page"
    }
}
```

2. Then add a new key/value and description

```arb
{
    "@@locale": "en",
    "counterAppBarTitle": "Counter",
    "@counterAppBarTitle": {
        "description": "Text shown in the AppBar of the Counter Page"
    },
    "helloWorld": "Hello World",
    "@helloWorld": {
        "description": "Hello World Text"
    }
}
```

3. Use the new string

```dart
import 'package:pomo/l10n/l10n.dart';

@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  final l10n = context.l10n;
  return Text(l10n.helloWorld);
}
```

### Adding Supported Locales

Update the `CFBundleLocalizations` array in the `Info.plist` at `ios/Runner/Info.plist` to include the new locale.

```xml
    ...

    <key>CFBundleLocalizations</key>
	<array>
		<string>en</string>
	</array>

    ...
```

### Adding Translations

1. For each supported locale, add a new ARB file in `lib/l10n/arb`.

```
├── l10n
│   ├── arb
│   │   ├── app_en.arb
│   │   └── app_es.arb
```

2. Add the translated strings to each `.arb` file:

`app_en.arb`

```arb
{
    "@@locale": "en",
    "timer": "Timer"
    ...
}
```

### Generating Translations

To use the latest translations changes, you will need to generate them:

1. Generate localizations for the current project:

```sh
flutter gen-l10n --arb-dir="lib/l10n/arb"
```

Alternatively, run `flutter run` and code generation will take place automatically.

### Generating Splash Screens

To use the latest splash screen changes, you will need to generate them:

```sh
dart run flutter_native_splash:create
```

### Generating Launcher Icons

To use the latest launcher icon (`<project root>/assets/images/pomo_logo.png`) changes, you will need to generate them:

```sh
dart run flutter_launcher_icons
```

## Building

### Building for the web

```bash
$ flutter build web --release -o docs
```

### Building .APK

Follow the steps [here](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/android). Make sure to create a keystore.

```bash
$ flutter build apk
```

### Building .DEB & .RPM (on Ubuntu 22.04)

More info [here](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/linux) and [here](https://medium.com/@fluttergems/packaging-and-distributing-flutter-desktop-apps-the-missing-guide-part-3-linux-24ef8d30a5b4).

#### Building .DEB

```bash
$ flutter_distributor release --name=dev --jobs=release-dev-linux-deb
```

#### Building .RPM

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install rpm patchelf

$ flutter_distributor release --name=dev --jobs=release-dev-linux-rpm
```

### Building .EXE

[*good luck*](https://medium.com/@fluttergems/packaging-and-distributing-flutter-desktop-apps-the-missing-guide-part-2-windows-0b468d5e9e70)

[help](https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/windows)

## About

By [recoskyler](https://github.com/recoskyler) - 2024

- Used **Major Mono Display** font by *Emre Parlak*.

[coverage_badge]: coverage_badge.svg
[flutter_localizations_link]: https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/flutter_localizations/flutter_localizations-library.html
[internationalization_link]: https://flutter.dev/docs/development/accessibility-and-localization/internationalization
[license_badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg
[license_link]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[very_good_analysis_badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/style-very_good_analysis-B22C89.svg
[very_good_analysis_link]: https://pub.dev/packages/very_good_analysis
[very_good_cli_link]: https://github.com/VeryGoodOpenSource/very_good_cli
